# CAS_Arduino
Used to take prevention before accident happen by making use of Ultrasonic sensor in order to measure the distance between the two vehicles. 



The main target of the ultrasonic braking system is that, vehicles should automatically brake when the sensors sense the obstacle. This is a technology for automobiles to sense an imminent forward collision with another vehicle or an obstacle, and to brake the vehicle accordingly, which is done by the braking circuit. This system includes two ultrasonic sensors viz. ultrasonic wave emitter and ultrasonic wave receiver. The ultrasonic wave emitter provided in front portion of an automatic braking system vehicle, producing and emitting ultrasonic waves in a predetermined distance in front of the vehicle. Ultrasonic wave receiver is also provided in front portion of the vehicle, receiving the reflected ultrasonic wave signal from the obstacle. The reflected wave (detection pulse) is measured to get the distance between vehicle and the obstacle. 
The DC gear motor is connected to the wheels of vehicle and power input is given to it from Arduino board. Then microcontroller is used to control the servo motor based on detection pulse information and the servo motor in turn automatically controls the braking of the vehicle. Thus, this new system is designed to solve the problem where drivers may not be able to brake manually exactly at the required time, but the vehicle can stop automatically by sensing the obstacles to avoid an accident. 
In order to reduce the emission levels, more work is going on for the modification of engine work functions and all. There are several kinds of braking mechanism systems that would only can be applicable mechanically, to move the ideology more  deep and brief the automatic braking system will be more sufficient and satisfactory in addition to mechanical braking system. In present generation, number of vehicles are coming into existence with newer technologies for implementation of human comfort and other conditioning. To extend the ideology in more brief manner and to take the step in different way, may automatic braking system would fulfil the methods of extension of technical existences. 
